README.md, before:

# NornNet

Where the Fates Weave Destiny with a Touch of AI Magic - A private AI ChatBot that rocks!

## Team Members

- Elizier Lamien
- Owen Osmera
- Joe Scott
- Caleb Stewart
- Shawn Noon

## Flask Tutorials

- [Chapter.16_Web_Development.pdf](https://itinstructor.github.io/WNCCComputerScience/Python/Web_Development/Chapter.16_Web_Development.pdf)
- [Flask Unit Converter](https://itinstructor.github.io/WNCCComputerScience/Python/Web_Development/Flask_Unit_Converter.pdf)
- [Flask Blog Tutorial](https://itinstructor.github.io/WNCCComputerScience/Python/Web_Development/Python_Flask_Blog_Tutorial.pdf)

## AI Private ChatBot Research

- [LM Studio Tutorial: Run Large Language Models (LLM) on Your Laptop](https://youtu.be/ygUEbCpOOLg?si=udEcraHqxw08DPsN)
- [Network Chuck Private AI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WxYC9-hBM_g)
- [How to Build a Local AI Agent With Python (Ollama, LangChain & RAG)](https://youtu.be/E4l91XKQSgw?si=Q-Unp9DOsImHkXbS)
- [The Ultimate Guide to Local AI and AI Agents (The Future is Here)](https://youtu.be/mNcXue7X8H0?si=uSyVxAVtBBj1cMHZ)
- [Part 1 - Run Ollama with Python in 5 Minutes (Full Setup Guide](https://youtu.be/7uTt5t0B3H0?si=wlLhD5IsrULHp54X)
- [Part 2 - Local Ollama Chatbot in Python](https://youtu.be/CJVR4HE_j-0?si=2_1ByW7LU14GOgZ7)
- [Demo Creating an App Using Ollama OpenAI Python Client](https://notes.kodekloud.com/docs/Running-Local-LLMs-With-Ollama/Building-AI-Applications/Demo-Creating-an-App-Using-Ollama-OpenAI-Python-Client)
- [How to Create Your Own AI Chatbot Like DeepSeek with Ollama in Python Flask](https://www.codewithfaraz.com/python/112/how-to-create-your-own-ai-chatbot-like-deepseek-with-ollama-in-python-flask)
- [Learn Ollama in 15 Minutes - Run LLM Models Locally for FREE](https://youtu.be/UtSSMs6ObqY)

## Personal Research

- Integrate an LLM into flask with python https://github.com/ollama/ollama-python
- Create, read, and write to a PDF file https://github.com/py-pdf/pypdf
- Chat history/Memory/Context https://github.com/digithree/ollama-rag

## Create Pull Request on NornNet Github

1. Fork the NornNet Repository.
2. Pull local copy to your computer.
3. Make code changes.
4. Commit --> then Push to your repository
5. If your repository is not up to date --> Synchronize Changes.
6. Create a Pull Request.

## AI ChatBot Project (Private AI options)

- Please watch: [Video about Guild Project](https://wnccnet-my.sharepoint.com/:v:/g/personal/loringw_wncc_edu/EQc3SGTfIatAkoM0KrAEeMcBv-unJKhR9tElYD93-XLvCA?e=ixGNOO) (10-16-25)

Python Flask project to create a web chatbot. Private mode: host an open-source model yourself (local server, private cloud, or on-prem) for full control over data and privacy.

## Project Outline: Flask Chatbot (Private AI)

## 1. Project Goal 🎯

Build a reliable web chatbot. The app should let users exchange messages with an AI model and see streamed responses.

- Privacy-first solution running a private model server (containerized) with secure access and logging controls.

## 2. Key Technologies

- **Backend**: Python, Flask, Waitress (chat endpoint and API connector)
- **Frontend**: HTML, CSS, JavaScript 
- **Private AI**: local model server (lightweight runtime like llama.cpp / GGML for CPU quantized models)

---

## 3. Architecture & Implementation Plan

High level: Client (browser) -> Flask app -> (Private model server) -> Flask -> browser.

The implementation is split into phases so the team can ship incrementally.

## Phase 1: Setup Flask Server & Ollama Backend

### ✅ Install ollama on Windows 2025 Server

1. Download the latest [Ollama Release](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/releases) (e.g., ollama-windows-amd64.zip)
2. Extract the zip file --> place all files in c:\ollama
3. Add to system environment variables: c:\ollama
4. Verify installation: Open a Command Prompt:
5. Verify that gemma3:4b is installed as the model

   ```ollama --version```

5. Pull a Model to test with:
  
    ```ollama pull gemma 3:4b```

### ✅ Set Up Ollama as a Windows Service (using NSSM)

This ensures Ollama starts automatically with the server and restarts if it ever crashes, without requiring a user to be logged in.

Step 1: Download NSSM

1. Go to the [NSSM download page](https://nssm.cc/download).
2. Download the latest release (e.g., nssm-2.24.zip).
3. Extract the ZIP file to a permanent location on your server, like C:\nssm

Step 2: Configure the Ollama Service with NSSM

1. Open an Administrator Command Prompt or Administrator PowerShell.

   ```nssm install Ollama```

This will open the NSSM service installer GUI.

Application Tab:

1. Path: Click the ... button and navigate to your ollama.exe file.
2. Startup directory: This should automatically populate to the correct folder.
3. Arguments: This is the most important part. Enter:

   ```serve```
  
This tells Ollama to run as a server.

4. Log on Tab: For a server, it's best to run this as a Local System account. Select the

 ```Local System account```

 radio button. This allows the service to run even when no user is logged in.
 
 5. Environment Tab: This is critical for allowing your Flask server to access Ollama.
 6. In the Environment variables box, add the following key-value pair:

   ```OLLAMA_HOST=0.0.0.0```

  This tells Ollama to listen for requests on all network interfaces, not just localhost.

  7. Click the ```Install service``` button. You should see a "Service 'Ollama' installed successfully!" message.

Step 3: Start the Service

1. Open the Windows Services app (run services.msc).
2. Find your new service named Ollama.
3. Right-click it and select Start.
4. Verify it's working: Open your server's web browser and navigate to:
  
   ```http://localhost:11434```

5. You should see the message "Ollama is running."

The Ollama server is now running as a persistent service on port 11434, accessible from other machines on your network.

☐ Todo — Draft README
🔄 In progress — Add examples and docs
✅ Complete — Initial release

## Flask Web Server

🔄 In progress

- Create `main_app.py` with routes for the homepage (`/`) and chat (`/chat`).
- Build `index.html` with a chat history, input, and send button.
- Implement minimal CSS to make the UI usable.
- Download the student handbook onto the server for the AI to reference
- Create virtual environment
  - Install python ollama library:

     ```pip install ollama```

## Phase 2: Frontend-Backend Communication

☐ Todo

- Use `main.js` to send user messages to `/chat` and append both user and bot messages to the DOM.

## Phase 3 — Private AI Integration (self-hosted)

☐ Todo

- CPU-only machines: prefer quantized models (GGML / llama.cpp) or small transformer models.
- Create a model server and expose an internal HTTP endpoint.
- Secure the private server: mTLS / API key, and run behind an IIS server which runs waitress
- Add support for streaming responses if the model server supports it.

# Tasks for the week of 11/2/25 - 11/9/25

- Make the ai function a class for expandability.
  - DO NOT chage the AI function file only make a new file for the class.
  - SetUserQuestion
  - GetUserQuestion
  - GetAIResponse
  - SetAIPrompt
  - GetAIPrompt
- Find a way to get a pdf reader in python and integrate that into the code.
  - How do we add the student handbook as context for the ai?
  - This can be a function for class we just need a way to read the file to create words for prompting the ai.
- Find out if context can be enabled on ollama.
  - Integrate this into the code so the AI can have context
  - Research using CAG or RAG
- Add github repository address to docs page.
- Add responsive design to user interface. The interface should resize for different devices. Look at ChatGPT for an example
- 

## Phase 4 — Privacy, Logging & Data Handling

☐ Todo

- Decide what to log (timestamps, anonymized session id, message length). Avoid storing PII by default.
- Add a user-facing privacy notice and an opt-out for logging.
- Implement retention policy and a script to sweep/delete logs older than X days.

## Phase 5 — Deploy & Ops

☐ Todo

- Add health checks, simple metrics (request counts, success/failure), and basic monitoring instructions.

---

### 4. Task Breakdown

This plan maps team roles to implement the privacy-oriented private mode.

#### Frontend (UI/UX)

- Team 1 (HTML & Structure): `index.html` — chat layout, message list, input form.
- Team 2 (CSS & Interactivity): `style.css` and `main.js` — chat bubbles, responsive layout, DOM updates, optimistic UI.

Shared goal: Deliver a clean, usable chat UI with graceful error states.

#### Backend (Flask Core)

- Team 3 (Server & Routing): `app.py` — create routes, session handling, simple persistence for sessions.
- Team 4 (Request & Response Handling): Implement `/chat` logic that validates input, forwards to the connector, and returns JSON or streaming responses.

Shared goal: Reliable, well-documented endpoints and simple persistence for conversation history.

#### AI Integration & Ops

- Team 5 (Private AI & Security): Implement local/private model server wiring and implement logging & retention rules. If hardware allows, tune for streaming and lower-latency inference.

Optional extras for the team:

- Add unit/integration tests for the connector code.
- Add a small evaluation page that replays test prompts and shows model outputs side-by-side.
- Add simple cost/latency telemetry so the team can compare different models.

---

Notes and safety:

- For private hosting, pick a model size that fits your hardware. Quantized CPU models are great for demos and privacy.
- Make privacy decisions explicit in the app UI (logging on/off, data retention).

**Shared Goal**: Create an intuitive and attractive user interface.

#### **Team 2: The Backend Team (Flask Core)** ⚙️

This pair builds the server-side foundation of the application.

- **Team 3 (Server & Routing)**: Set up the `app.py` file, initialize the Flask application, and create the routes for the home page (`/`) and the chat endpoint (`/chat`).
- **Team 4 (Request & Response Handling)**: Implement the logic within the routes to handle incoming `POST` requests from the frontend. Manage the data flow, ensuring that user input is correctly received and that responses are sent back in the proper JSON format.

**Shared Goal**: Build a stable and reliable server that connects the frontend to the AI logic.

#### **Team 3: The AI Integration Team (API Connectors)** 🧠

This pair focuses on the "smart" part of the chatbot.

- **Team 5 (API Research & Logic)**: Research suitable conversational models on the Hugging Face Hub. Write the core Python function that takes a user's message, formats it correctly, and sends it to the Hugging Face Inference API.

## Project Ideas

### 1. Personal To-Do List ✅

A simple, single-user application to keep track of tasks. This avoids the complexity of collaboration and multiple accounts.

- **Key Features**: A user can register and log in. Once logged in, they can add tasks, mark tasks as complete, and delete them.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Backend)**: Set up the database models for `User` and `Task`. Create the Flask routes to add, update, and delete tasks.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Authentication & Forms)**: Handle the user registration and login logic. Create the web forms for adding and editing tasks.
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend)**: Design the Jinja2 templates to display the task list and forms. Apply CSS to make it look clean.

---

### 2. Simple Recipe Book 🍲

A website to display a collection of recipes. This project focuses on reading data from a database and presenting it nicely.

- **Key Features**: A public homepage that lists all available recipes. Clicking a recipe shows a detailed view with ingredients and instructions. An admin page allows for adding or editing recipes.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Backend & Database)**: Create the `Recipe` model in the database and populate it with a few examples. Write the routes to show all recipes and a single recipe detail page.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Admin Panel)**: Build a simple admin page (no complex login needed at first) with a form to add new recipes to the database.
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend)**: Design the templates for the recipe list and the detailed recipe view, focusing on readability.

---

### 3. Micro-Blog ✍️

A single-author blog where one person can log in to post updates, and the public can read them. This is a great introduction to content management.

- **Key Features**: A login page for the author. An interface for the author to create, edit, and delete posts. A public-facing page that lists all posts chronologically.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Backend & Database)**: Create the `User` and `Post` models. Implement the routes for creating and deleting posts.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Authentication)**: Implement a simple login/logout system for the single author. Protect the "new post" page so only the author can access it.
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend)**: Design the templates for the main blog feed and the form for creating a new post.

---

### 4. Simple Guestbook 📖

A classic web project where visitors can leave a short message. It's a great way to learn how to handle form submissions.

- **Key Features**: A single page that displays a list of messages. A form where a visitor can enter their name and a message to be added to the list.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Backend & Database)**: Create a simple `Message` model (name, content, timestamp). Write the single Flask route that both displays messages and handles the form submission for new ones.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Form Handling)**: Create the web form for submitting a new message and add basic validation (e.g., name and message cannot be empty).
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend)**: Design the single Jinja2 template that shows the list of messages and the submission form.

---

### 5. URL Shortener (Basic Version) 🔗

A tool that takes a long URL and generates a short link. This is an excellent project for understanding routes and database lookups.

- **Key Features**: A homepage with a form to submit a long URL. The app generates a unique short code, saves both URLs, and displays the new short link. When the short link is visited, the user is redirected to the original URL.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Core Logic & Database)**: Design the `Link` model. Write the function to generate a random, unique short code.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Routes)**: Create the main route for the submission form and the dynamic route that captures the short code and performs the redirect.
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend)**: Design the simple HTML form and the result page that shows the user their shortened URL.

---

### 6. Event Calendar 📅

A simple site that lists upcoming events. This project avoids the complexity of ticketing and user roles.

- **Key Features**: A page that lists events with their date, time, and description. An admin area to add, edit, or delete events.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Backend & Database)**: Create the `Event` model (title, date, description). Write the public route to display the list of all events.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Admin Panel)**: Build the forms and routes for the admin to perform CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations on events.
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend)**: Design the Jinja2 templates for the public event list and style them to look like a calendar or agenda.

---

### 7. Simple Poll App 📊

An application where an admin can create a single poll and anyone can vote and see the results.

- **Key Features**: An admin page to create a poll with a question and a few options. A public voting page. A results page that shows how many votes each option received.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Backend & Database)**: Design models for `Poll` and `Vote`. Create the route that handles saving a new poll created by the admin.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Voting & Results)**: Create the routes for the voting page (which records a vote) and the results page (which counts the votes).
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend)**: Design the three pages: the admin creation form, the public voting page, and the results page.

---

### 8. Digital Flashcard App 🧠

A study tool where a user can create decks of flashcards and quiz themselves.

- **Key Features**: A user can create a "deck." Within a deck, they can add "cards," each with a front (question) and a back (answer). A quiz mode displays the front and reveals the back on a button click.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Backend & Database)**: Design the `Deck` and `Card` models. Create routes for viewing decks and the cards within them.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Forms & Logic)**: Create the forms for adding new decks and new cards. Implement the logic for the "quiz" page.
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend & Interactivity)**: Design the templates. Use a small amount of JavaScript to handle the "flip card" functionality on the quiz page.

---

### 9. Simple Contact Book 📇

A private, single-user address book to store contact information.

- **Key Features**: A user can log in. They can add contacts with a name, phone number, and email. They can view, edit, and delete their contacts.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Backend & Database)**: Create `User` and `Contact` models. Write the routes for adding, editing, and deleting contacts.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Authentication & Forms)**: Handle user login. Create the form for adding/editing a contact.
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend)**: Design the main dashboard that lists all contacts and the form pages.

---

### 10. "Quote of the Day" Website 💬

A very simple website that displays a new, random quote each day.

- **Key Features**: A database of quotes. The homepage displays one random quote. An admin page allows adding new quotes to the database.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Backend & Database)**: Create a `Quote` model (text, author). Write the main route that selects a random quote from the database and passes it to the template.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Admin Panel)**: Build a simple form and route for an admin to add new quotes.
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend)**: Design a visually appealing homepage to display the quote of the day.

Commit message:

Add Local or Production Constant

README.md, after:

# NornNet

Where the Fates Weave Destiny with a Touch of AI Magic - A private AI ChatBot that rocks!

## Team Members

- Elizier Lamien
- Owen Osmera
- Joe Scott
- Caleb Stewart
- Shawn Noon

## Flask Tutorials

- [Chapter.16_Web_Development.pdf](https://itinstructor.github.io/WNCCComputerScience/Python/Web_Development/Chapter.16_Web_Development.pdf)
- [Flask Unit Converter](https://itinstructor.github.io/WNCCComputerScience/Python/Web_Development/Flask_Unit_Converter.pdf)
- [Flask Blog Tutorial](https://itinstructor.github.io/WNCCComputerScience/Python/Web_Development/Python_Flask_Blog_Tutorial.pdf)

## AI Private ChatBot Research

- [LM Studio Tutorial: Run Large Language Models (LLM) on Your Laptop](https://youtu.be/ygUEbCpOOLg?si=udEcraHqxw08DPsN)
- [Network Chuck Private AI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WxYC9-hBM_g)
- [How to Build a Local AI Agent With Python (Ollama, LangChain & RAG)](https://youtu.be/E4l91XKQSgw?si=Q-Unp9DOsImHkXbS)
- [The Ultimate Guide to Local AI and AI Agents (The Future is Here)](https://youtu.be/mNcXue7X8H0?si=uSyVxAVtBBj1cMHZ)
- [Part 1 - Run Ollama with Python in 5 Minutes (Full Setup Guide](https://youtu.be/7uTt5t0B3H0?si=wlLhD5IsrULHp54X)
- [Part 2 - Local Ollama Chatbot in Python](https://youtu.be/CJVR4HE_j-0?si=2_1ByW7LU14GOgZ7)
- [Demo Creating an App Using Ollama OpenAI Python Client](https://notes.kodekloud.com/docs/Running-Local-LLMs-With-Ollama/Building-AI-Applications/Demo-Creating-an-App-Using-Ollama-OpenAI-Python-Client)
- [How to Create Your Own AI Chatbot Like DeepSeek with Ollama in Python Flask](https://www.codewithfaraz.com/python/112/how-to-create-your-own-ai-chatbot-like-deepseek-with-ollama-in-python-flask)
- [Learn Ollama in 15 Minutes - Run LLM Models Locally for FREE](https://youtu.be/UtSSMs6ObqY)

## Personal Research

- Integrate an LLM into flask with python https://github.com/ollama/ollama-python
- Create, read, and write to a PDF file https://github.com/py-pdf/pypdf
- Chat history/Memory/Context https://github.com/digithree/ollama-rag

## Create Pull Request on NornNet Github

1. Fork the NornNet Repository.
2. Pull local copy to your computer.
3. Make code changes.
4. Commit --> then Push to your repository
5. If your repository is not up to date --> Synchronize Changes.
6. Create a Pull Request.

## AI ChatBot Project (Private AI options)

- Please watch: [Video about Guild Project](https://wnccnet-my.sharepoint.com/:v:/g/personal/loringw_wncc_edu/EQc3SGTfIatAkoM0KrAEeMcBv-unJKhR9tElYD93-XLvCA?e=ixGNOO) (10-16-25)

Python Flask project to create a web chatbot. Private mode: host an open-source model yourself (local server, private cloud, or on-prem) for full control over data and privacy.

## Project Outline: Flask Chatbot (Private AI)

## 1. Project Goal 🎯

Build a reliable web chatbot. The app should let users exchange messages with an AI model and see streamed responses.

- Privacy-first solution running a private model server (containerized) with secure access and logging controls.

## 2. Key Technologies

- **Backend**: Python, Flask, Waitress (chat endpoint and API connector)
- **Frontend**: HTML, CSS, JavaScript 
- **Private AI**: local model server (lightweight runtime like llama.cpp / GGML for CPU quantized models)

---

## 3. Architecture & Implementation Plan

High level: Client (browser) -> Flask app -> (Private model server) -> Flask -> browser.

The implementation is split into phases so the team can ship incrementally.

## Phase 1: Setup Flask Server & Ollama Backend

### ✅ Install ollama on Windows 2025 Server

1. Download the latest [Ollama Release](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/releases) (e.g., ollama-windows-amd64.zip)
2. Extract the zip file --> place all files in c:\ollama
3. Add to system environment variables: c:\ollama
4. Verify installation: Open a Command Prompt:
5. Verify that gemma3:4b is installed as the model

   ```ollama --version```

5. Pull a Model to test with:
  
    ```ollama pull gemma 3:4b```

### ✅ Set Up Ollama as a Windows Service (using NSSM)

This ensures Ollama starts automatically with the server and restarts if it ever crashes, without requiring a user to be logged in.

Step 1: Download NSSM

1. Go to the [NSSM download page](https://nssm.cc/download).
2. Download the latest release (e.g., nssm-2.24.zip).
3. Extract the ZIP file to a permanent location on your server, like C:\nssm

Step 2: Configure the Ollama Service with NSSM

1. Open an Administrator Command Prompt or Administrator PowerShell.

   ```nssm install Ollama```

This will open the NSSM service installer GUI.

Application Tab:

1. Path: Click the ... button and navigate to your ollama.exe file.
2. Startup directory: This should automatically populate to the correct folder.
3. Arguments: This is the most important part. Enter:

   ```serve```
  
This tells Ollama to run as a server.

4. Log on Tab: For a server, it's best to run this as a Local System account. Select the

 ```Local System account```

 radio button. This allows the service to run even when no user is logged in.
 
 5. Environment Tab: This is critical for allowing your Flask server to access Ollama.
 6. In the Environment variables box, add the following key-value pair:

   ```OLLAMA_HOST=0.0.0.0```

  This tells Ollama to listen for requests on all network interfaces, not just localhost.

  7. Click the ```Install service``` button. You should see a "Service 'Ollama' installed successfully!" message.

Step 3: Start the Service

1. Open the Windows Services app (run services.msc).
2. Find your new service named Ollama.
3. Right-click it and select Start.
4. Verify it's working: Open your server's web browser and navigate to:
  
   ```http://localhost:11434```

5. You should see the message "Ollama is running."

The Ollama server is now running as a persistent service on port 11434, accessible from other machines on your network.

☐ Todo — Draft README
🔄 In progress — Add examples and docs
✅ Complete — Initial release

## Flask Web Server

🔄 In progress

- Create `main_app.py` with routes for the homepage (`/`) and chat (`/chat`).
  - Dynamic base path support: set `BASE_PATH=/nornnet` in `.env` for production; leave unset locally to serve at root.
- Build `index.html` with a chat history, input, and send button.
- Implement minimal CSS to make the UI usable.
- Download the student handbook onto the server for the AI to reference
- Create virtual environment
  - Install python ollama library:

     ```pip install ollama```

## Phase 2: Frontend-Backend Communication

☐ Todo

- Use `main.js` to send user messages to `/chat` and append both user and bot messages to the DOM.

## Phase 3 — Private AI Integration (self-hosted)

☐ Todo

- CPU-only machines: prefer quantized models (GGML / llama.cpp) or small transformer models.
- Create a model server and expose an internal HTTP endpoint.
- Secure the private server: mTLS / API key, and run behind an IIS server which runs waitress
- Add support for streaming responses if the model server supports it.

# Tasks for the week of 11/2/25 - 11/9/25

- Make the ai function a class for expandability.
  - DO NOT chage the AI function file only make a new file for the class.
  - SetUserQuestion
  - GetUserQuestion
  - GetAIResponse
  - SetAIPrompt
  - GetAIPrompt
- Find a way to get a pdf reader in python and integrate that into the code.
  - How do we add the student handbook as context for the ai?
  - This can be a function for class we just need a way to read the file to create words for prompting the ai.
- Find out if context can be enabled on ollama.
  - Integrate this into the code so the AI can have context
  - Research using CAG or RAG
- Add github repository address to docs page.
- Add responsive design to user interface. The interface should resize for different devices. Look at ChatGPT for an example
- 

## Phase 4 — Privacy, Logging & Data Handling

☐ Todo

- Decide what to log (timestamps, anonymized session id, message length). Avoid storing PII by default.
- Add a user-facing privacy notice and an opt-out for logging.
- Implement retention policy and a script to sweep/delete logs older than X days.

## Phase 5 — Deploy & Ops

☐ Todo

- Add health checks, simple metrics (request counts, success/failure), and basic monitoring instructions.

---

### 4. Task Breakdown

This plan maps team roles to implement the privacy-oriented private mode.

#### Frontend (UI/UX)

- Team 1 (HTML & Structure): `index.html` — chat layout, message list, input form.
- Team 2 (CSS & Interactivity): `style.css` and `main.js` — chat bubbles, responsive layout, DOM updates, optimistic UI.

Shared goal: Deliver a clean, usable chat UI with graceful error states.

#### Backend (Flask Core)

- Team 3 (Server & Routing): `app.py` — create routes, session handling, simple persistence for sessions.
- Team 4 (Request & Response Handling): Implement `/chat` logic that validates input, forwards to the connector, and returns JSON or streaming responses.

Shared goal: Reliable, well-documented endpoints and simple persistence for conversation history.

#### AI Integration & Ops

- Team 5 (Private AI & Security): Implement local/private model server wiring and implement logging & retention rules. If hardware allows, tune for streaming and lower-latency inference.

Optional extras for the team:

- Add unit/integration tests for the connector code.
- Add a small evaluation page that replays test prompts and shows model outputs side-by-side.
- Add simple cost/latency telemetry so the team can compare different models.

---

Notes and safety:

- For private hosting, pick a model size that fits your hardware. Quantized CPU models are great for demos and privacy.
- Make privacy decisions explicit in the app UI (logging on/off, data retention).

**Shared Goal**: Create an intuitive and attractive user interface.

#### **Team 2: The Backend Team (Flask Core)** ⚙️

This pair builds the server-side foundation of the application.

- **Team 3 (Server & Routing)**: Set up the `app.py` file, initialize the Flask application, and create the routes for the home page (`/`) and the chat endpoint (`/chat`).
- **Team 4 (Request & Response Handling)**: Implement the logic within the routes to handle incoming `POST` requests from the frontend. Manage the data flow, ensuring that user input is correctly received and that responses are sent back in the proper JSON format.

**Shared Goal**: Build a stable and reliable server that connects the frontend to the AI logic.

#### **Team 3: The AI Integration Team (API Connectors)** 🧠

This pair focuses on the "smart" part of the chatbot.

- **Team 5 (API Research & Logic)**: Research suitable conversational models on the Hugging Face Hub. Write the core Python function that takes a user's message, formats it correctly, and sends it to the Hugging Face Inference API.

## Project Ideas

### 1. Personal To-Do List ✅

A simple, single-user application to keep track of tasks. This avoids the complexity of collaboration and multiple accounts.

- **Key Features**: A user can register and log in. Once logged in, they can add tasks, mark tasks as complete, and delete them.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Backend)**: Set up the database models for `User` and `Task`. Create the Flask routes to add, update, and delete tasks.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Authentication & Forms)**: Handle the user registration and login logic. Create the web forms for adding and editing tasks.
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend)**: Design the Jinja2 templates to display the task list and forms. Apply CSS to make it look clean.

---

### 2. Simple Recipe Book 🍲

A website to display a collection of recipes. This project focuses on reading data from a database and presenting it nicely.

- **Key Features**: A public homepage that lists all available recipes. Clicking a recipe shows a detailed view with ingredients and instructions. An admin page allows for adding or editing recipes.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Backend & Database)**: Create the `Recipe` model in the database and populate it with a few examples. Write the routes to show all recipes and a single recipe detail page.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Admin Panel)**: Build a simple admin page (no complex login needed at first) with a form to add new recipes to the database.
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend)**: Design the templates for the recipe list and the detailed recipe view, focusing on readability.

---

### 3. Micro-Blog ✍️

A single-author blog where one person can log in to post updates, and the public can read them. This is a great introduction to content management.

- **Key Features**: A login page for the author. An interface for the author to create, edit, and delete posts. A public-facing page that lists all posts chronologically.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Backend & Database)**: Create the `User` and `Post` models. Implement the routes for creating and deleting posts.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Authentication)**: Implement a simple login/logout system for the single author. Protect the "new post" page so only the author can access it.
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend)**: Design the templates for the main blog feed and the form for creating a new post.

---

### 4. Simple Guestbook 📖

A classic web project where visitors can leave a short message. It's a great way to learn how to handle form submissions.

- **Key Features**: A single page that displays a list of messages. A form where a visitor can enter their name and a message to be added to the list.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Backend & Database)**: Create a simple `Message` model (name, content, timestamp). Write the single Flask route that both displays messages and handles the form submission for new ones.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Form Handling)**: Create the web form for submitting a new message and add basic validation (e.g., name and message cannot be empty).
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend)**: Design the single Jinja2 template that shows the list of messages and the submission form.

---

### 5. URL Shortener (Basic Version) 🔗

A tool that takes a long URL and generates a short link. This is an excellent project for understanding routes and database lookups.

- **Key Features**: A homepage with a form to submit a long URL. The app generates a unique short code, saves both URLs, and displays the new short link. When the short link is visited, the user is redirected to the original URL.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Core Logic & Database)**: Design the `Link` model. Write the function to generate a random, unique short code.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Routes)**: Create the main route for the submission form and the dynamic route that captures the short code and performs the redirect.
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend)**: Design the simple HTML form and the result page that shows the user their shortened URL.

---

### 6. Event Calendar 📅

A simple site that lists upcoming events. This project avoids the complexity of ticketing and user roles.

- **Key Features**: A page that lists events with their date, time, and description. An admin area to add, edit, or delete events.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Backend & Database)**: Create the `Event` model (title, date, description). Write the public route to display the list of all events.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Admin Panel)**: Build the forms and routes for the admin to perform CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations on events.
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend)**: Design the Jinja2 templates for the public event list and style them to look like a calendar or agenda.

---

### 7. Simple Poll App 📊

An application where an admin can create a single poll and anyone can vote and see the results.

- **Key Features**: An admin page to create a poll with a question and a few options. A public voting page. A results page that shows how many votes each option received.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Backend & Database)**: Design models for `Poll` and `Vote`. Create the route that handles saving a new poll created by the admin.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Voting & Results)**: Create the routes for the voting page (which records a vote) and the results page (which counts the votes).
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend)**: Design the three pages: the admin creation form, the public voting page, and the results page.

---

### 8. Digital Flashcard App 🧠

A study tool where a user can create decks of flashcards and quiz themselves.

- **Key Features**: A user can create a "deck." Within a deck, they can add "cards," each with a front (question) and a back (answer). A quiz mode displays the front and reveals the back on a button click.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Backend & Database)**: Design the `Deck` and `Card` models. Create routes for viewing decks and the cards within them.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Forms & Logic)**: Create the forms for adding new decks and new cards. Implement the logic for the "quiz" page.
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend & Interactivity)**: Design the templates. Use a small amount of JavaScript to handle the "flip card" functionality on the quiz page.

---

### 9. Simple Contact Book 📇

A private, single-user address book to store contact information.

- **Key Features**: A user can log in. They can add contacts with a name, phone number, and email. They can view, edit, and delete their contacts.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Backend & Database)**: Create `User` and `Contact` models. Write the routes for adding, editing, and deleting contacts.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Authentication & Forms)**: Handle user login. Create the form for adding/editing a contact.
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend)**: Design the main dashboard that lists all contacts and the form pages.

---

### 10. "Quote of the Day" Website 💬

A very simple website that displays a new, random quote each day.

- **Key Features**: A database of quotes. The homepage displays one random quote. An admin page allows adding new quotes to the database.
- **Task Breakdown**:
  - **Students 1 & 2 (Backend & Database)**: Create a `Quote` model (text, author). Write the main route that selects a random quote from the database and passes it to the template.
  - **Students 3 & 4 (Admin Panel)**: Build a simple form and route for an admin to add new quotes.
  - **Students 5 & 6 (Frontend)**: Design a visually appealing homepage to display the quote of the day.
